In this video, we're going to address the
bug that we saw in the last video about
the add update pet not working. I
actually researched this and I actually
learned something about Spring today.
This is some old school stuff. Been
around for a while but not commonly used.
I learned a little bit here in
researching this. Let's just go
through the problem that we're seeing.
I'll explain this in detail so I got
it running in the background. Let's just do
find owner. We'll pick on Michael
and let's go in and add a pet. We see
null null here. We are going to fix
that shortly. But let's go in and add in
a pet. This is where we're getting a
500 error. Let's come in take a
closer look at this.
What's happening, it kind of threw me
for a loop because we're getting a
NumberFormatException for the input
String of Cat. What's happening?
Let's come over here and take a closer
look at this. Come back here to the
templates. Let's view page source.
What's happening is the value is
getting set here. So this is what's
getting passed back as petType.
Spring is trying to parse that and trying
to create a petType from that. It's
trying to get a handle on petType but
it's looking it up using the String dog
and cat for the Long. So what it's trying to
find that. When it tries to find pet
type or create a pet type, it's blowing
up because obviously you can't create a
number out of word called cat. That's why
it's not happy about that. I looked
at this for a while trying to figure out
what was wrong. Looking at the Thymeleaf
because the only change we made was the
renaming of the pet type property and
that shouldn't matter. I'm looking in
here, how this is getting generated
and just couldn't figure it out. Then
almost accidentally, I looked at this
component. This is a formatter and
basically it sets up kind of like
an interceptor so when this comes in, so
we are going to get a parse. It's
going to take in text and it is going to
go and create the PetType. So, kind of an
odd way that we're doing it but I'm
going to go ahead and implement this.
We'll get him cooking now. I
actually never seen this used so that's
kind of a little bit of a learning
experience for me as well. You can see in
their comments that they referenced some
some blog entries and you can see it's
all the way from 2010. So, eight years ago.
This has been rolling around for
a while out there. For what they're
doing, I would do it differently but we
are going to go through this learning
process together and implement it. So
let's go in here. I am going to come
in to the web project. Let's
create a package for that.
Add a new class.
It's going to be unhappy for a couple of
minutes while I ...
Not sure which one
that is.
In ParseException, which one
we have here? java.text.Parse
Exception. So we'll grab that.
Java text. That was the
right one. We want to...like that
like so.
In their implementation, they're getting
a hold of repository. We're going to use
our PetTypeService.
Again, you can actually see some of
the older-style of Spring. So they actually
have a component and they still have the
Autowired annotation. They were doing
private final on it which is good.But
the constructor, I think it's in Spring 4.2,
it admitted the need for having to auto
wire the Constructors so that
happens implicitly for us. We need to
make this a component so it gets picked
up by the Spring Context
and now change this to petTypeService
findAll. That returns back a Set
and this will iterate
over it. Basically when it goes to
parse a PetType, it takes in on the
String of the the PetType. It's
going to iterate over the list of all
pet types and then get the name and
return that. This is not the way I'd
normally iterate over it. But for our
purposes, for a small collection, this is
going to be fine. So I'm just kind of
following what the Spring guys did here
If I was doing this differently, I'd
probably just use the PetTypeService
defined by the name rather than pull out
a collection and iterate over it. But
that's just a stylistic difference in
how I would implement it. So let's go
ahead and restart Spring Boot.
So that is up and running. Let's come
back over here to our pet clinic.
You'll find owners. Click on Michael again.
We'll add in a
new pet.
We'll add that and now we can see
that that does get added.
But looks like
actually it did not get added for whatever
reason.
So I think it failed the validation.
That's what happened. It failed a
validation of null. We're not, we don't have
validation handling yet so the object
failed validation. We have a hidden
problem there but we do have validation
coming up in the course. I'm not going to
address that right now but I do want to
look at this new pet null null.
So that is our pet form.
What it's like
for...
pet
owner firstName lastName.
Unfortunately, these are not
getting set so let's take a look at Pet.
It does have
owner.
So let's uh stop this and run it in the
debugger. I want to see what's happening
here. So that pet does have an owner but
it's like the owner object is missing.
I think I see it already.
So we have owner
add pet but the pet does not have the
owner. So I replace that. I'm working with
that directly so they probably
implemented that and that little
convenience function. So let's come here
and say...
I am almost positive that's
what it is. Let's go ahead. I'm just going to run
this normally.
I have to go into the debugger for that
to figure out what happened there. I just
saw that because they originally
had a convenience function to add in the
pet. That probably maintained the
relationship and now I have to do it
myself.
So let's come back over here. You find
owners.
Pick on Fiona this
time. I was going to add a pet and now we
can see that's no longer there. So there
was that relationship where I didn't add
the owner to the empty pet object that
we needed. So,
let's test this here.
Add a cat
for Fiona. Invalid date.
Why don't you like my date? So we haven't added in the
validation yet so I'm not going to worry
about this for right now. We will
need to go in and fix validation. But
for now, that does fix the parse
problem that we had with that. So, just as
a recap, come back in here. We added in
the PetTypeFormatter. This is going
to be used by Spring MVC. Expand this out.
This is a Spring component. It
implements the Formater interface for
PetType. Spring MVC is going to use
this so when it's parsing a PetType you
can see here that's parsing that in and
this is how it derives the problem or
the object PetType. In the
implementation again, we're going to go into
the pet service to findAll and then
basically match on name. Again the
default behavior was trying to generate
a PetType and using the String and
putting it into the ID property so the
automatic parsing magic of Spring was
failing us there and it was because I
was missing this formatter component. So
let's go ahead and close out that task.
That was number 69.
and that will close out that issue.Take a quick look there. Close out
the issue.
And now
we're going to start working on visits. So I'm
going to go ahead and do some task planning
on this soon. But we'll go ahead and add
visits and then we'll come back and
start adding in validation constraint so
that's going to resolve the issues that
we saw earlier in this video.